<title>FVWM Themes Center Documentation

<abstract>
The Themes Center is a FvwmScript sample, which allows you to manage your
themes configuration, general settings and FVWM Themes sessions.
You can start it via the menu "Theme Management" / "Themes Center GUI".
</abstract>

<verb>
Contents:
            1. Themes Selector
            2. General Settings
            3. FVWM Themes Sessions
            4. Miscenallous
            5. Bugs & Questions
</verb>

<sec>1. Themes Selector

There is the list of all found themes at the top left. When you select
one of these themes the list of the components of this theme are displayed
at the top right. Then, you can either select all components of this
theme using the left "Set" button, only the look components using the button
"Look", or you can select only one component by selecting a component in
the top right list and using the right "Set" button. You can get
information on the theme by using the "README" button (other buttons
are not yet implemented).


Your currently used configuration and all changes you are doing using the
Themes Selector are reflected in the bottom text list. The first column
lists all components, the second column displays the theme, of which the
component is used, and the third column (empty when you start the Script)
displays the new set theme for this component if different from the currently
used one (setting a new component is done using the method explained
in the paragraph above). Finally, the last column may contain "Var", "Opt"
or "V/O" which indicates that the component of the theme (the used
one or the set one) has variants or options. 


If a component has variants or options you can modify them by selecting
the component (in the bottom list) and clicking the "Properties" button.
Moreover, you can restore the used theme of the component (unset your
component theme change) using the "Restore" button, and you can lock the
component (so that "load all" for a theme will ignore this component)
using the "Lock" button. The "Drop" button is not yet implemented.


Now to apply your changes, you have to use the "Apply" button
at the bottom. The "Refresh" button is similar to the "Apply" in that
the entire current configuration is reloaded, but your changes are
not applied. The "Update" button just rebuild the lists used in the
the Themes Selector configuration; this is useful if you made changes
in components using other tools, like as the "Theme Management" menu
or using "fvwm-themes-config" from a command line.


<sec>2. General Settings

The "General Settings" tool enables to do the same job that with the
"Theme Management -> current -> settings ->" sub-menu or equivalent
form-based and gtk-based ThemeSettings samples. The top field list
represents your used and set configuration. To modify a setting, select
one component and then a field list will appear below so that you can choose
another variant for this component. All buttons at the bottom work like in
the "Themes Selector" tool screen.


Important Note: Clicking on the "Apply" applies changes in both
"Themes Selector" and "General Settings" tool screens.


<sec>3. FVWM Themes Sessions

FVWM Themes has its own session concept. See the fvwm-themes-start
manual page and the FAQ for details on this. This is useful to run
different FVWM Themes configurations. The GUI seems really intuitive
(there is already a mini doc in it), so we will not go further.


However, here are some tips showing how sessions can be useful. If you
want to make a fast test without forgetting your current configuration,
add a session named "test" (or reuse the existing "test" session),
and define your current (usually "main") session configuration for it.
After defining "test" session as described, click on "Apply". Now, you
can use the Themes Selector and the General Settings tools freely
without modifying your main configuration. You can always return to your
"main" session, restoring the previous configuration, or, if you prefer,
you can update your "main" configuration from the current "test"
configuration using the same method as described above.


<sec>4. Miscenallous

The Script has a few options, it is run as follows in the Themes Management
Menu:

<verb>
  FvwmScript FvwmScript-ThemesCenter --text-colorset 34 \
                                     --viewer-colorset 33
</verb>

I.e., colorset 34 is used for the field list or text area and colorset 33
is used for a help line (and in addition any FvwmScript sample uses
colorset 36 for its main colors). The only other option is --lang xx where
xx is the first 2 letters of the unix LANG, like "ru_RU.koi8r". By default,
the LANG is set to the environment variable $LANG or "en". The currently
supported lang values are en, fr and ru.


<sec>5. Bugs & Questions

Report any bugs to: fvwm-themes-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

For questions used: fvwm-themes-users@lists.sourceforge.net
